Documentation for scan kernel template (#1559)
oneapi-src/oneDPL: documentation/library_guide/kernel_templates/single_pass_scan.rst

> Single-Pass Scan

Author: Fixed.

##########

-----------------------------------------------------------
``inclusive_scan`` Function Template
-----------------------------------------------------------

The ``inclusive_scan`` function computes the inclusive prefix sum using a given binary operation.
The function implements a single-pass algorithm, where each input element is read exactly once from
global memory and each output element is written to exactly once in global memory.

> 

Author: I added a few words here about forward progress guarantees and an example device that supports it.

> 

Reviewer: This is probably good enough for now, and when we add more algorithms, we can maybe group these and say more about this.  Are there any good resources to allow users to understand what hardware does or doesn't provide these strong forward progress guarantees?

I know there is the proposed sycl extension, but until then, is there some resource we can point users to? maybe there isn't.

A synopsis of the ``inclusive_scan`` function is provided below:

.. code:: cpp

   // defined in <oneapi/dpl/experimental/kernel_templates>

   namespace oneapi::dpl::experimental::kt::gpu {

   template <typename InIterator, typename OutIterator, typename BinaryOp>
   sycl::event
   inclusive_scan (sycl::queue q, InIterator in_begin, InIterator in_end, OutIterator out_begin,
                   BinaryOp binary_op, KernelParam param); // (1)

   template <typename InRng, typename OutRng, typename BinaryOp>
   sycl::event
   inclusive_scan (sycl::queue q, InRng in_rng, OutRng out_rng, BinaryOp binary_op,

>                    KernelParam param) // (2)

Reviewer 2: I will swap the APIs for the radix sort.

+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ``binary_op``                                | A function object that will applied to the elements of the input    |
|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ``param``                                    | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

**Type Requirements**:

- The element type of sequence to scan must be a C++ integral or floating-point type
  other than ``bool`` with a width of up to 64 bits.
- The binary operator must have a known identity. That is, ``sycl::has_known_identity<Op>::value`` must

>   evaluate to true.

Author: I suppose this is more of a current limitation since we do plan to support other operators in the future. I moved it around and added a link to the table.

- The result is non-deterministic if the binary operator is non-associative (such as in floating-point addition).

> .. note::

Author: I removed the note directive.

>    Current limitations:

Author: Yes, I changed it.

>    - The function will internally block until the issued kernels have completed execution

Author: I added another sentence about how this makes the algorithm synchronous instead of the intent of being asynchronous.

In the future, I'm not sure what the best way is to change the API to show that is now asynchronous. Perhaps it would be better if we change the algorithm now to return `void` and in the future, it will return a `sycl::event`?

>    - The function will internally block until the issued kernels have completed execution

Reviewer: Its an interesting question about a general mindset for KT, one probably worth discussing, but we can leave it alone in the context of this doc PR.
Thanks for the clarification in the text.

   }

**Output:**

.. code:: none

   1 3 4 7 8 10

.. _memory-requirements:

-------------------
Memory Requirements
-------------------

The algorithms use global and local device memory (see `SYCL 2020 Specification
<https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#_sycl_device_memory_model>`_)
for intermediate data storage. For the algorithms to operate correctly, there must be enough memory
on the device; otherwise, the behavior is undefined. The amount of memory that is required
depends on input data and configuration parameters, as described below.

Global Memory Requirements
--------------------------

Global memory is used for copying the input sequence and storing internal data such as status flags.
The used amount depends on many parameters; below is an upper bound approximation:

2 * V * N \ :sub:`flags` + F * N \ :sub:`flags`

where V is the number of bytes needed to store the input value type and F is the number of bytes needed to store the flags.
Currently, F is hard-coded to 4 as the flag type is 32-bits.

The value of N\ :sub:`flags` represents the number of work-groups and depends on ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size``.

> It can be approxmiated by dividing the number of input elements N by the product of ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size``

Author: Changed, thanks.

and adding 33 for padding.

.. note::

   If the number of input elements can be efficiently processed by a single work-group,
   the kernel template is executed by a single work-group and does not use any global memory.

.. _local-memory:

Local Memory Requirements
-------------------------

Local memory is used for storing elements of the input that are to be scanned by a single work group.
The used amount is denoted as N\ :sub:`elems_per_workgroup`, which equals to ``sizeof(key_type) * param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``.

Some amount of local memory is also used by the calls to SYCL's group reduction and group scan. The amount of memory used particularly
for these calls is implementation dependent.

-----------------------------------------
Recommended Settings for Best Performance
-----------------------------------------

The general advice is to choose kernel parameters based on performance measurements and profiling information.
The initial configuration may be selected according to these high-level guidelines:

- When the number of elements to scan (N) is small (~8K or less),

>   generally it is more efficient to process the algorithm by a single work-group.

Reviewer: Does this number (~8k) depend upon type, and hardware?  Can we say more about this?

Also, does the user have any control here about if a single workgroup algorithm is used?  Perhaps we may want to reword this to say something like:

"When the number of elements is small enough to fit within single work-group, the algorithm will ignore kernel parameters and instead dispatch to a single workgroup version, where it is generally more efficient."  

(Sidenote for the algorithm in general: we may want to consider if this fits within the mindset of kernel templates, or if we would instead want to provide a separate overload or merely documentation guidance about how to set kernel params to achieve a single workgroup impl)

Author: I added the suggested statements. I think it can be argued to not include specific cutoffs (e.g., 8k) because they are dependent on the device's local memory size and is not exactly something that can be controlled currently.

>   In this case, the choice of kernel parameters is irrelevant, as we internally dispatch to a single

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  In this case, the choice of kernel parameters is irrelevant, as the implementation will internally dispatch to a single
```

  work-group implementation.

- Generally, utilizing all available
  compute cores is key for better performance. Allow creating enough work chunks to feed all

>   X\ :sup:`e`-cores [#fnote1]_ on a GPU: ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size ≈ N / xe_core_count``.

Reviewer: I think this needs a little re-wording:
"To allow sufficient work to satisfy all X_e cores. use ..." perhaps?

Author: I changed the wording to hopefully be a little clearer.

.. warning::

   Avoid setting too large ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size`` values.
   Make sure that :ref:`Memory requirements <memory-requirements>` are satisfied.

.. [#fnote1] The X\ :sup:`e`-core term is described in the `oneAPI GPU Optimization Guide
   <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/oneapi/optimization-guide-gpu/2024-0/intel-xe-gpu-architecture.html#XE-CORE>`_.
   Check the number of cores in the device specification, such as `Intel® Data Center GPU Max specification

>    <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/products/details/discrete-gpus/data-center-gpu/max-series/products.html>`_.

Author: I added a link to this article and a suggestion to utilize it when tuning for performance.

> Single-Pass Scan

Author: I'm not sure how much value there is to having a new page for GPU kernel templates vs just linking to this document in the top-level `kernel_templates_main.rst` page. The ESIMD page includes information about ESIMD itself, but I don't know if there is much to say in a generic GPU kernel template page that is not already said in `kernel_templates_main.rst`.

> Single-Pass Scan

Author: Good point. I renamed it to "Inclusive Scan."

################

-----------------------------------------------------------

> ``inclusive_scan`` Function Template

Reviewer 4: We don't use monospace font in headers, please remove the ```` from inclusive_scan.

> -----------------------------------------------------------

Author: Fixed.

The ``inclusive_scan`` function computes the inclusive prefix sum using a given binary operation.
The function implements a single-pass algorithm, where each input element is read exactly once from
global memory and each output element is written to exactly once in global memory.

As this algorithm uses inter-work-group communication, it must be run on a device that supports

> strong forward progress guarantees, such as the `Intel® Data Center GPU Max

Reviewer 4: Please cite the full name of the link: Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series

> <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/products/details/discrete-gpus/data-center-gpu/max-series/products.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: Forward progress guarantees is a complex topic for GPUs. We should be careful while doing statements about it.

As far as I know (not totally sure), Data Center GPU Max guarantees at least parallel forward progress between work-groups for  [cooperative launches](https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/extensions/experimental/sycl_ext_oneapi_root_group.asciidoc). Normal launches provide weakly parallel forward guarantee (essentially, no guarantees).
At this point, I suppose, one should thoroughly investigate GPU architecture specifics to understand whether this synchronization pattern would work or not. That's why I recommend simply specifying the list of the supported GPUs.

Reviewer: This makes sense.  I was hoping there was some better existing reference to point to, but perhaps its best to just list "known" supported GPUs for now.

Reviewer 2: Unfortunately, it's like folklore. At least, I am not aware of such references.

Author: Would it be sufficient to remove the phrase "must be run on a device that supports strong forward progress guarantees" and simply state that the algorithm has been designed specifically to run on Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series?

Reviewer 2: I've been thinking about the previous Dan's suggestion and the flexibility of it is a good thing.
Adam, what do you think about that slight correction to your note, which avoids making that general statement about the GPU?

I also mentioned device USM as it is an optional SYCL feature. 

>The algorithm is designed to be compatible with a variety of devices that provide at least parallel forward guarantees between work-groups, due to cross-work-group communication. Additionally, it requires support for device USM. It has been verified to be compatible with Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series.

Author: I like your wording a lot. I updated the paragraph accordingly.

A synopsis of the ``inclusive_scan`` function is provided below:

.. code:: cpp

   // defined in <oneapi/dpl/experimental/kernel_templates>

   namespace oneapi::dpl::experimental::kt::gpu {

   template <typename InIterator, typename OutIterator, typename BinaryOp>
   sycl::event
   inclusive_scan (sycl::queue q, InIterator in_begin, InIterator in_end, OutIterator out_begin,
                   BinaryOp binary_op, KernelParam param); // (1)

   template <typename InRng, typename OutRng, typename BinaryOp>
   sycl::event
   inclusive_scan (sycl::queue q, InRng in_rng, OutRng out_rng, BinaryOp binary_op,
                   KernelParam param) // (2)

   }

Parameters
----------

+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                          | Description                                                         |
+===============================================+=====================================================================+

> |  ``q``                                        | SYCL* queue to submit the kernels to.                               |

Reviewer 4: Please change to: The SYCL* queue where kernels are submitted.

+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

> |                                               | The sequences of elements to apply the algorithm to.                |

Reviewer 4: Please change to: The algorithm where the sequences of elements are applied.

Reviewer 4: LGTM.

|                                               | - ``sycl::buffer`` (2),                                             |
|                                               | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all               |
|                                               |   <viewable-ranges>` (2),                                           |
|                                               | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange          |
|                                               |   <viewable-ranges>` (2),                                           |
|                                               | - :ref:`USM pointers <use-usm>` (1),                                |
|                                               | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::begin and oneapi::dpl::end                     |
|                                               |   <use-buffer-wrappers>` (1).                                       |
|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

> |  ``binary_op``                                | A function object that will applied to the elements of the input    |

Reviewer 4: Please change to:  A function object that is applied to the elements of the input.

|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ``param``                                    | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

**Type Requirements**:

- The element type of sequence to scan must be a C++ integral or floating-point type

>   other than ``bool`` with a width of up to 64 bits.

Reviewer 2: Is it correct? As I recall we test only 32-bit and 64-bit arithmetic types.

Author: You are right; we do not test 16-bit or 8-bit types so I updated this to make it clearer.

> - The result is non-deterministic if the binary operator is non-associative (such as in floating-point addition).

Reviewer 2: I suppose there should be commutativity as well.

The implementation uses reduction group operation, which requires both commutativity and associativity:
https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#:~:text=The%20result%20of%20a%20call%20to%20these%20functions%20is%20non%2Ddeterministic%20if%20the%20binary%20operator%20is%20not%20commutative%20and%20associative.

Author: Thanks, added.

> **Current limitations**:

Reviewer 4: Please capitalize limitations.

> **Current Limitations**:

Reviewer 2: Could you turn that section into a note? It would stylistically highlight that it's a temporary thing and will align with radix sort page.

Author: It was a note, but a previous reviewer suggested to remove it as a note. I suppose it makes sense to align it with the radix sort page so I turned it back into a note.

- The function will internally block until the issued kernels have completed execution.
  Although intended in the future to be an asynchronous call, the algorithm is currently synchronous.

> - The SYCL device associated with the provided queue must support 64-bit atomic operations

Reviewer 2: Is it true when we scan 32-bit elements?

Author: I reworded this to clarify that this only holds when the element type is 64-bits.

- The binary operator must have a known identity. That is, ``sycl::has_known_identity<Op>::value`` must
  evaluate to true. Such operators are listed in the `SYCL 2020 specification <https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#table.identities>`_.

Return Value
------------

A ``sycl::event`` object representing the status of the algorithm execution.

--------------
Usage Examples
--------------

``inclusive_scan`` Example

> ----------------------

Reviewer 4: We don't use monospace font in headers, please remove the ```` from inclusive_scan. The header underline needs to go the full length of the header, otherwise it renders incorrectly. Please fix the length.

   #include <oneapi/dpl/experimental/kernel_templates>

   namespace kt = oneapi::dpl::experimental::kt;

   int main()
   {
      std::size_t n = 6;
      sycl::queue q{sycl::gpu_selector_v};
      std::uint32_t* arr = sycl::malloc_shared<std::uint32_t>(n, q);
      std::uint32_t* out = sycl::malloc_shared<std::uint32_t>(n, q);

      // initialize
      arr[0] = 1, arr[1] = 2, arr[2] = 1, arr[3] = 3, arr[4] = 1, arr[5] = 2;

      // scan
      auto e = kt::gpu::inclusive_scan(q, arr, arr + n, out, std::plus<std::uint32_t>{}, kt::kernel_param<256, 8>{});
      e.wait();

      // print
      for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
         std::cout << out[i] << ' ';
      std::cout << '\n';

      sycl::free(arr, q);
      sycl::free(out, q);
      return 0;
   }

**Output:**

.. code:: none

   1 3 4 7 8 10

.. _memory-requirements:

-------------------
Memory Requirements
-------------------

The algorithms use global and local device memory (see `SYCL 2020 Specification
<https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#_sycl_device_memory_model>`_)
for intermediate data storage. For the algorithms to operate correctly, there must be enough memory

> on the device; otherwise, the behavior is undefined. The amount of memory that is required

Reviewer 2: Contrary to radix sort, scan throws `bad_alloc` (I will do the same for radix sort), so it is not undefined behavior. Could you adjust the description?

Author: Fixed.

Some amount of local memory is also used by the calls to SYCL's group reduction and group scan. The amount of memory used particularly
for these calls is implementation dependent.

-----------------------------------------
Recommended Settings for Best Performance
-----------------------------------------

The general advice is to choose kernel parameters based on performance measurements and profiling information.
The initial configuration may be selected according to these high-level guidelines:

- When the number of elements is small enough to fit within single work-group, the algorithm will ignore kernel
  parameters and instead dispatch to a single workgroup version, where it is generally more efficient.

- Generally, utilizing all available
  compute cores is key for better performance. To allow sufficient work to satisfy all
  X\ :sup:`e`-cores [#fnote1]_ on a GPU, use ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size ≈ N / xe_core_count``.

- On devices with mutiple tiles, it may prove beneficial to experiment with different tile hierarchies as described

>   in https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/flattening-gpu-tile-hierarchy.html.

Reviewer 4: Please change this to a live link: `Options for using a GPU Tile Hierarchy <https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/flattening-gpu-tile-hierarchy.html>`

The function implements a single-pass algorithm, where each input element is read exactly once from
global memory and each output element is written to exactly once in global memory.

As this algorithm uses inter-work-group communication, it must be run on a device that supports
strong forward progress guarantees, such as the `Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series
<https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/products/details/discrete-gpus/data-center-gpu/max-series/products.html>`_.

A synopsis of the ``inclusive_scan`` function is provided below:

.. code:: cpp

   // defined in <oneapi/dpl/experimental/kernel_templates>

   namespace oneapi::dpl::experimental::kt::gpu {

   template <typename InIterator, typename OutIterator, typename BinaryOp>
   sycl::event
   inclusive_scan (sycl::queue q, InIterator in_begin, InIterator in_end, OutIterator out_begin,
                   BinaryOp binary_op, KernelParam param); // (1)

   template <typename InRng, typename OutRng, typename BinaryOp>
   sycl::event
   inclusive_scan (sycl::queue q, InRng in_rng, OutRng out_rng, BinaryOp binary_op,
                   KernelParam param) // (2)

   }

Parameters
----------

> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | Name                                          | Description                                                         |
> +===============================================+=====================================================================+
> |  ``q``                                        | The SYCL* queue where kernels are submitted.                        |
> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
> |                                               | The sequences to apply the algorithm to.                            |
> |  - ``in_begin``, ``in_end``, ``out_begin`` (1)| Supported sequence types:                                           |
> |  - ``in_rng``, ``out_rng`` (2)                |                                                                     |
> |                                               | - ``sycl::buffer`` (2),                                             |
> |                                               | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all               |
> |                                               |   <viewable-ranges>` (2),                                           |
> |                                               | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange          |
> |                                               |   <viewable-ranges>` (2),                                           |
> |                                               | - :ref:`USM pointers <use-usm>` (1),                                |
> |                                               | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::begin and oneapi::dpl::end                     |
> |                                               |   <use-buffer-wrappers>` (1).                                       |
> |                                               |                                                                     |
> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
> |  ``binary_op``                                | A function object that is applied to the elements of the input.     |
> |                                               |                                                                     |
> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
> |  ``param``                                    | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
> |                                               |                                                                     |
> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer 2: That should fix rendering of the table. I've also swapped (1) and (2) on the column on the right.

```suggestion
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                           | Description                                                         |
+================================================+=====================================================================+
| ``q``                                          | The SYCL* queue where kernels are submitted.                        |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                |                                                                     |
|                                                | The sequences to apply the algorithm to.                            |
| - ``in_begin``, ``in_end``, ``out_begin`` (1), | Supported sequence types:                                           |
| - ``in_rng``, ``out_rng`` (2).                 |                                                                     |
|                                                | - :ref:`USM pointers <use-usm>` (1),                                |
|                                                | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::begin and oneapi::dpl::end                     |
|                                                |   <use-buffer-wrappers>` (1),                                       |
|                                                | - ``sycl::buffer`` (2),                                             |
|                                                | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange          |
|                                                | - :ref:`USM pointers <use-usm>` (1),                                |
|                                                | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::begin and oneapi::dpl::end                     |
|                                                |   <use-buffer-wrappers>` (1).                                       |
|                                                |                                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``binary_op``                                  | A function object that is applied to the elements of the input.     |
|                                                |                                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``param``                                      | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
|                                                |                                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | Name                                          | Description                                                         |
> +===============================================+=====================================================================+
> |  ``q``                                        | The SYCL* queue where kernels are submitted.                        |
> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
> |                                               | The sequences to apply the algorithm to.                            |
> |  - ``in_begin``, ``in_end``, ``out_begin`` (1)| Supported sequence types:                                           |
> |  - ``in_rng``, ``out_rng`` (2)                |                                                                     |
> |                                               | - ``sycl::buffer`` (2),                                             |
> |                                               | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all               |
> |                                               |   <viewable-ranges>` (2),                                           |
> |                                               | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange          |
> |                                               |   <viewable-ranges>` (2),                                           |
> |                                               | - :ref:`USM pointers <use-usm>` (1),                                |
> |                                               | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::begin and oneapi::dpl::end                     |
> |                                               |   <use-buffer-wrappers>` (1).                                       |
> |                                               |                                                                     |
> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
> |  ``binary_op``                                | A function object that is applied to the elements of the input.     |
> |                                               |                                                                     |
> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
> |  ``param``                                    | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
> |                                               |                                                                     |
> +-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer 2: That should fix rendering of the table. I've also swapped (1) and (2) on the column of the right. 

```suggestion
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                           | Description                                                         |
+================================================+=====================================================================+
| ``q``                                          | The SYCL* queue where kernels are submitted.                        |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                                |                                                                     |
|                                                | The sequences to apply the algorithm to.                            |
| - ``in_begin``, ``in_end``, ``out_begin`` (1), | Supported sequence types:                                           |
| - ``in_rng``, ``out_rng`` (2).                 |                                                                     |
|                                                | - :ref:`USM pointers <use-usm>` (1),                                |
|                                                | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::begin and oneapi::dpl::end                     |
|                                                |   <use-buffer-wrappers>` (1),                                       |
|                                                | - ``sycl::buffer`` (2),                                             |
|                                                | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all               |
|                                                |   <viewable-ranges>` (2),                                           |
|                                                | - :ref:`oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange          |
|                                                |   <viewable-ranges>` (2).                                           |
|                                                |                                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``binary_op``                                  | A function object that is applied to the elements of the input.     |
|                                                |                                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``param``                                      | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
|                                                |                                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

depends on input data and configuration parameters, as described below.

Global Memory Requirements
--------------------------

Global memory is used for copying the input sequence and storing internal data such as status flags.
The used amount depends on many parameters; below is an upper bound approximation:

2 * V * N \ :sub:`flags` + F * N \ :sub:`flags`

where V is the number of bytes needed to store the input value type and F is the number of bytes needed to store the flags.
Currently, F is hard-coded to 4 as the flag type is 32-bits.

The value of N\ :sub:`flags` represents the number of work-groups and depends on ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size``.
It can be approximated by dividing the number of input elements N by the product of ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size``
and adding 33 for padding.

.. note::

   If the number of input elements can be efficiently processed by a single work-group,
   the kernel template is executed by a single work-group and does not use any global memory.

.. _local-memory:

Local Memory Requirements
-------------------------

> Local memory is used for storing elements of the input that are to be scanned by a single work group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Local memory is used for storing elements of the input that are to be scanned by a single work-group.
```

The used amount is denoted as N\ :sub:`elems_per_workgroup`, which equals to ``sizeof(key_type) * param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``.

Some amount of local memory is also used by the calls to SYCL's group reduction and group scan. The amount of memory used particularly
for these calls is implementation dependent.

-----------------------------------------
Recommended Settings for Best Performance
-----------------------------------------

The general advice is to choose kernel parameters based on performance measurements and profiling information.
The initial configuration may be selected according to these high-level guidelines:

- When the number of elements is small enough to fit within single work-group, the algorithm will ignore kernel

>   parameters and instead dispatch to a single workgroup version, where it is generally more efficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  parameters and instead dispatch to a single work-group version, where it is generally more efficient.
```

+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``param``                                      | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
|                                                |                                                                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

**Type Requirements**:

- The element type of sequence to scan must be a 32-bit or 64-bit bit C++ integral or floating-point type.
- The result is non-deterministic if the binary operator is non-associative (such as in floating-point addition)
  or non-commutative.

.. note::

  Current limitations:

  - The function will internally block until the issued kernels have completed execution.
    Although intended in the future to be an asynchronous call, the algorithm is currently synchronous.
  - The SYCL device associated with the provided queue must support 64-bit atomic operations if the element type is 64-bits.

>   - The binary operator must have a known identity. That is, ``sycl::has_known_identity<Op>::value`` must
>     evaluate to true. Such operators are listed in the `SYCL 2020 specification <https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#table.identities>`_.

Reviewer 2: `has_known_identity` requires accumulator type and operation type. Let's adjust the description accordingly: 

```suggestion
  - There must be a known identity value for the provided combination of the element type and the binary operation. That is, ``sycl::has_known_identity_v`` must evaluate to true. Such operators are listed in the `SYCL 2020 specification <https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#table.identities>`_.
```

inclusive_scan Example
----------------------

.. code:: cpp

   // possible build and run commands:
   //    icpx -fsycl inclusive_scan.cpp -o inclusive_scan -I /path/to/oneDPL/include && ./inclusive_scan

   #include <cstdint>
   #include <iostream>
   #include <sycl/sycl.hpp>

   #include <oneapi/dpl/experimental/kernel_templates>

   namespace kt = oneapi::dpl::experimental::kt;

   int main()
   {
      std::size_t n = 6;
      sycl::queue q{sycl::gpu_selector_v};
      std::uint32_t* arr = sycl::malloc_shared<std::uint32_t>(n, q);
      std::uint32_t* out = sycl::malloc_shared<std::uint32_t>(n, q);

      // initialize
      arr[0] = 1, arr[1] = 2, arr[2] = 1, arr[3] = 3, arr[4] = 1, arr[5] = 2;

      // scan
      auto e = kt::gpu::inclusive_scan(q, arr, arr + n, out, std::plus<std::uint32_t>{}, kt::kernel_param<256, 8>{});
      e.wait();

      // print
      for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
         std::cout << out[i] << ' ';
      std::cout << '\n';

      sycl::free(arr, q);
      sycl::free(out, q);
      return 0;
   }

**Output:**

.. code:: none

   1 3 4 7 8 10

.. _memory-requirements:

-------------------
Memory Requirements
-------------------

> The algorithms use global and local device memory (see `SYCL 2020 Specification
> <https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#_sycl_device_memory_model>`_)
> for intermediate data storage. For the algorithms to operate correctly, there must be enough memory
> on the device; otherwise, the algorithm throws a ``std::bad_alloc`` exception. The amount of memory that is required
> depends on input data and configuration parameters, as described below.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to highlight that std::bad_alloc is applicable only to the global device memory. Plus, some minor corrections. 

```suggestion
The algorithm uses global and local device memory (see `SYCL 2020 Specification
<https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#_sycl_device_memory_model>`_)
for intermediate data storage. For the algorithm to operate correctly, there must be enough memory
on the device. It throws a ``std::bad_alloc`` exception if there is not enough global device memory. The behavior is undefined if there is not enough local memory. The amount of memory that is required
depends on input data and configuration parameters, as described below.
```

> Global Memory Requirements

Reviewer 2: I suppose there is no need in a such elaborate excursion into the global memory requirements as we have ``bad_alloc`` for the user as a tool to handle the corresponding issue.

What about limiting the description of the whole section to: 
> The amount of the internally allocated memory does not exceed the amount needed to store the input sequence and usually it is a small fracture of it.

Author: I believe there is still some value in informing the user about how much global memory is required. I agree that throwing `bad_alloc` will tell the user that their current configuration cannot be satisfied, but it will probably still be helpful to let users know what type of global memory usage to expect and how that usage depends on their kernel parameters.

Reviewer 2: I still believe that it is too detailed that may confuse a user. One would need to understand that section before starting using that functionality and it is not simple.

What do you think about removing "upper bound" and "adding 33 for padding" parts to reduce verbosity?

Reviewer 2: Or alternatively, accompany the verbose estimation with a rough one.

Author: I agree there was a lot of verbosity there. I removed a lot of the unnecessary details such as the padding and the variable for the flag length.

Reviewer 2: It looks much simpler now, thanks
